Kids learn through play, so how does play based therapy provide better therapy outcomes? 

Purpose: sharing information about play-based therapy for kids- what kind of play is involved? What are the sessions like? Why is this so beneficial? As well as an overview about how kids learn through play.
Introduction
Play therapy ticks all the boxes - it’s fun ✓, evidence-based ✓, and beneficial ✓! Play is a child’s way of exploring the world, being creative, making mistakes, and expressing themselves. It has become a powerful therapy tool, used by trained play therapists and other allied health professionals to work on a child’s specific goals. So channel your inner child, and let’s dive into all things play therapy!
What is play-based therapy?
While play therapy might look like the therapist is ‘just playing’ with the child, in reality, it is a scientific and evidence-based method of helping the child solve problems, explore their emotions, and deepen their play and creativity. Play can broadly assist with a child’s development, and can also be used as a medium to target specific therapy goals. 
Virginia Axline was a pioneer of play therapy, and her philosophy still influences the way many therapists work today! In essence, Axline encouraged a child-led approach, so they could express themselves and their creativity without limitations (while maintaining safety, of course!). When children lead and engage in play that interests them (not what the adult believes play ‘should’ look like), therapists get better therapy buy-in, and better results!
So what type of play is involved? It depends on the child’s interests and goals! Sessions might be;
Child-led. The therapist may select the toys, or the environment, and the child decides how to play and sets the pace. Toys could include construction and building blocks, craft, or dress-up costumes.
Directed play. The therapist directs the child in how to use the toys, or suggests ways to play, if the child requires more support or if this method is most beneficial for achieving specific goals. This could look like a specific craft or drawing activity, or supported story telling.
Why is it beneficial?
Play therapy is proven to help address;
Behaviours of concern
Internal emotions such as anxiety or depression
External behaviours such as aggression or social isolation
Self-efficacy
Improving academic performance 
Improving relationships with parents and peers.  
But, how do kids ACTUALLY learn through play? Surely it’s a gimmick? We understand your apprehension, so let’s break it down some more!
Therapists start by developing rapport with the child. A strong foundation is needed for the child to feel safe, and we know that when children are regulated and comfortable, they learn and engage much better. A pillar of play therapy is the belief that children have the innate ability to grow and achieve their goals - by allowing them to exercise this (by letting them set the pace of the session, and decide how to use the toys or how to play), they can learn about themselves and the world, and the therapist can integrate the child’s specific goals!
Conclusion
Convinced of the benefits of play therapy? This approach is proven in the research, and can be used by specialist play therapists as well as other allied health professionals, such as Speech Pathologists and Occupational Therapists. It’s a great way to support children to reach their goals - plus, they might not even feel like they’re doing work!
